Docs for configuring Lambda function settings (#2995)
aws-amplify/docs: docs/guides/functions/configuring-lambda.md

---
title: Configuring Lambda function settings
description: How to configure custom settings for your Lambda function
---

> In this guide you will learn how to configure custom settings for a Lambda function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn how to configure custom settings (including runtime, memory, environment variables, and secrets) for a Lambda function.
```

> ### Overview

Reviewer: this title is not really needed, i think.

> When creating a function within an Amplify project, you are given several options to choose how you would like your function to be configured. You may find that your application requires a different configuration than the CLI set up for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may want to override the Amplify CLI default configurations for your Lambda function or configure changes not available within the `amplify add function` workflow.
```
Maybe something like this to keep it shorter. Then you can collapse all of this with the primary sentence on top.

> For example, when creating a `Node.js` function, the CLI will configure a version for you, also setting a default memory size among other things. There are a few things you may want to override or configure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Example*: When creating a `Node.js` function, the CLI will automatically configure a runtime version, a default memory size, and more. There are a few things you may want to override or configure:
```

1. Runtime
2. Memory size
3. Environment variables

Let's look at how to update all of these things.

> ### Updating the Runtime

Reviewer: Use H2

> Depending on what version you are using, the CLI will set a default runtime version. You may want to tweak the version of the runtime to be either a newer or older version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may want to tweak the runtime version to be either a newer or older version than the Amplify-generated default.
```

Let's say we've deployed a Lambda function using a Node.js runtime and we want to modify the version of the runtime to be `14.x`.

> To do so, open __amplify/backend/function/function-name/function-name-cloudformation-template.json__ and set the `RunTime` property in the `LambdaFunction` resource:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do so, open __amplify/backend/function/function-name/function-name-cloudformation-template.json__ and set the `Runtime` property in the `LambdaFunction` resource to:
```

```json
"Resources": {
  "LambdaFunction": {
      ...
      "Runtime": "nodejs14.x", // Runtime now set to 14.x
      "Layers": [],
      ...
    }
  },
}
```

Next, deploy the updates using the Amplify CLI:

```sh
amplify push
```

> ### Updating the default memory size

Reviewer: H2

When you deploy a function with Amplify, the default memory size will be set to a low setting (128MB). Often you will want to increase the default memory size in order to improve performance. A popular memory setting in Lambda is 1024MB as it speeds the function noticeably while usually keeping the cost the same or close to it.

To update the memory size, open __amplify/backend/function/function-name/function-name-cloudformation-template.json__ and set the `MemorySize` property in the `LambdaFunction` resource:

```json
"Resources": {
  "LambdaFunction": {
      ...
      "Runtime": "nodejs14.x",
      "MemorySize": "1024", // Memory size now set to 1024 mb
      "Layers": [],
      ...
    }
  },
}
```

Next, deploy the updates using the Amplify CLI:

```sh
amplify push
```

_To learn more about optimizing resources allocation for Lambda functions, check out [this](https://dev.to/aws/deep-dive-finding-the-optimal-resources-allocation-for-your-lambda-functions-35a6) blog post._

> ### Setting an environment variable

Reviewer: H2

A very common scenario is the need to set and use an environment variable in your Lambda function.

> There are two main approaches (other than manually adding values in the Lambda console):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are generally two types of environment variables:
- Secret values (example: access keys, API keys etc.)
- Non-secret values (example: endpoint information, locale information etc.)
```

> 1. If your value is secret, you can use [Secrets Manager](https://aws.amazon.com/secrets-manager/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Configuring secret values

If your value is secret, you can use [Secrets Manager](https://aws.amazon.com/secrets-manager/).
```

To do so, you first need to create a secret in the [secrets manager](https://console.aws.amazon.com/secretsmanager) console.

Next, add a statement to the `PolicyDocument` in __amplify/backend/function/function-name/function-name-cloudformation-template.json__ to give the Lambda function permission to use the secret:

```json
{
  "Effect": "Allow",
  "Action": [
    "secretsmanager:GetSecretValue"
  ],
  "Resource": {
    "Fn::Sub": [
      "arn:aws:secretsmanager:${region}:${account}:secret:key_id",
      {
        "region": {
          "Ref": "AWS::Region"
        },
        "account": {
          "Ref": "AWS::AccountId"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

Next, access the token in your function:

```js
const AWS = require('aws-sdk')

const secretsManager = new AWS.SecretsManager()
const secret = await secretsManager.getSecretValue({ SecretId: 'YOUR_KEY' }).promise()

console.log(secret.SecretString)
```

> 2. If your value is just a configuration value you can configure the CloudFormation configuration locally to set the value - in __amplify/backend/function/function-name/function-name-cloudformation-template.json__

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 2. Configuring non-secret values

If your value is just a configuration value, you can configure the CloudFormation configuration locally to set the value - in __amplify/backend/function/function-name/function-name-cloudformation-template.json__
```

> For this purpose there is a section in the template - `Parameters` - that you can set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this purpose, there is a section in the template - `Parameters` - that you can set.
```
